Source: http://www.agritech.tnau.ac.in/agriculture/agri_Main_Field_preparation_Rice 1.html

Tillage :: An Introduction Home | Seasons & Varieties | Tillage | Nutrient Mgmnt | Irrigation Mgmnt | Weed Mgmnt | Crop Protection | Cost of Cultivation Photobank Main Field Management ::  An Introduction Mainfield Preparation and Transplanting Special technologies for problem soils a) Fluffy Paddy Soils :

Prevalent in Cauvery delta zone Compact the soil by passing 400 kg stone roller or oil-drum with stones inside, eight times.

at proper moisture level (moisture level at friable condition of soil which is approximately 13 to 18%)

once in three years to prevent the sinking of draught animals and workers during puddling.

Pulling Out Seedlings b) Sodic Soils :

Predominant districts : Kanchipuram, Thiruvannamalai, Nagapattinam, Pudukkottai , Thiruvallur, Ramanathapuram, Velur, Thoothukudi, Thiruvarur, Thanjavur, Salem, Dharmapuri, Villupuram, Thirunelveli, Perambalur, Tiruchirapalli, Namakkal and Cuddalore.

Plough at optimum moisture regime.

Apply gypsum at 50% gypsum requirement uniformly and impound water.

Provide drainage for leaching out soluble salts.

Apply green leaf manure at 5 t/ha, 10 to 15 days before transplanting.

Mix 37.5 kg of zinc sulphate per ha with sand to make a total quantity of 75 kg and spread the mixture uniformly on the levelled field.

Do not incorporate the mixture in the soil.

Sodic Soil in Summer                                            Sodic Soil in Rainy Season                                        Gypsum Application Impounding Water and Providing Drainage                     Growing Green Manure Crop                               Green Manure Incorporation c) Saline Soils :

Predominant districts : Nagapattinam, Kanchipuram, Namakkal, Thiruvarur and Thiruvallur.

Provide lateral and main drainage channels (60 cm deep and 45 cm wide).

Apply green leaf manure at 5 t/ha at 10 to 15 days before transplanting.

Add 25% extra dose of nitrogen in addition to recommended P, K and ZnSO 4 .

d) Acid Soils :

Predominant districts : Ooty, Kodaikanal, Yercaud, Pudukottai and Kanyakumari.

Apply  lime (as per lime requirement of the soil) before last ploughing.

Updated on Jan 2023 Seasons & Varieties Tillage Weed Management Cost of Cultivation © All Rights Reserved. TNAU 2008 - 2023.
