Source: http://www.agritech.tnau.ac.in/crop_protection/rice_diseases/another methods_rice_2.html

TNAU Agritech Portal :: Crop Protection Success Stories Farmers Association Farmers' Innovation Publications Contact Agricultural crops :: Cereals :: Rice Pathogen:

H. oryzae produces brown septate mycelium.

Conidiophores may arise singly or in small groups. They are geniculate, brown in colour.

Conidia are usually curved with a bulged center and tapered ends. They are pale to golden brown colour and are 6-14 septate.

The perfect stage of the fungus is C. miyabeanus . It produces perithecia with asci containing 6-15 septate, filamentous or long cylinderical, hyaline to pale olive green ascospores.

These breakdown the protein fragment of cell wall resulting in partial disruption of integrity of cell.

Favourable Conditions:

Temperature of 25-30 C with relative humidity above 80 per cent is highly favourable. Excess nitrogen aggravates the disease severity.

Mode of Spread and Survival :

Infected seeds and stubbles are the most common source of primary infection. The conidia present on infected grain and mycelium in the infected tissue are viable for 2 to 3 years.

Airborne conidia infect the plants both in nursery and in main field.

Maximum flight of conidia takes place at a wind velocity of 4.0 - 8.8 hr. Minimum temperature of 27 –28 C, Relative humidity of 90-99% and rainfall of 0.4 -14.4 mm favoured the dispersal of the conidia to maximum extent The fungus also survives on collateral hosts like Leersia hexandra and Echinochlora colonum .

Management:

Field sanitation-removal of collateral hosts and infected debris from the field Use of slow release of nitrogenous fertilizers is advisable.

Grow resistant and moderately resistant varieties like  CO 51, CO 52, CO 53, CO 55, CO 56, ASD 18 and IR 64.

Use disease free seeds.

Treat the seeds with Thiram or Captan at 4 g/kg. Spray the nursery with Edifenphos 40 ml or Mancozeb 80 g for 20 cent nursery.

Spray the crop in the main field with Edifenphos 200 ml or Mancozeb 500 g when grade reaches 3. If needed repeat after 15 days.

Source of information:

AICRIP rice, TNAU, Coimbatore Rice diseases- online resource, IRRI, Phillippines.

Acknowledgements:

IRRI, Phillippines Success Stories Farmers Association Publications Disclaimer © TNAU 2008-2026 All Rights Reserved.
