Source: http://www.agritech.tnau.ac.in/crop_protection/rice_diseases/another methods_rice_1.html

TNAU Agritech Portal :: Crop Protection Success Stories Farmers Association Farmers' Innovation Publications Contact Agricultural crops :: Cereals :: Rice Pathogen :

The mycelium is hyaline to olivaceous and septate.

Conidia are produced in clusters on long septate, olivaceous conidiophores.

Conidia are pyriform to ellipsoid, attached at the broader base by a hilum. Conidia are hyaline to pale olive green, usually 3 celled.

The perfect state of the fungus is M. grisea producing perithecia. The ascospores are hyaline, fusiform, 4 celled and slightly curved.

Survival and Mode of spread:

The fungus survives on collateral hosts viz., Panicum repens, Digitaria magrginata, Brachiaria mutica, Leersia hexandra and Echinochloa crusgalli.

Mycelium and conidia in the collateral hosts, straw and seeds are major sources of primary inoculum.

The secondary spread takes place through airborne conidia since spores of the fungus present throughout the year. Irrigation water may carry the conidia to different fields.

Favourable Conditions:

Intermittent drizzles Cloudy weather High relative humidity (93-99 per cent)

Low night temperature (between 15-20 C or less than 26 C Availability of collateral hosts Application of excess nitrogen Management:

Grow resistant and moderately resistant varieties like CO47, CO 51, CO 52, CO 53, CO55, CO56, ASD 18 and IR64.

Remove and destory the weed hosts in the field bunds and channels.

Treat the seeds with Captan or Thiram or Carbendazim or Tricyclazole at 2 g/kg or Bacillus subtilis @ 10g/kg of seed.

Spray the nursery with Carbendazim 50 WP @ 25 g or Edifenphos 50 EC @ 25 ml for 20 cent nursery.

Foliar spray the main field with edifenphos 200 ml or carbendazim 100 g or tricyclazole 75 WP @ 200 g or iprobenphos (IBP) 200 ml /acre or  azoxystrobin + difenoconazole 100 ml/acre   when initial symptoms are noticed.

Source of information:

AICRIP Rice, TNAU, Coimbatore Rice diseases- online resource, IRRI, Phillippines.

Acknowledgements:

IRRI, Phillippines Success Stories Farmers Association Publications Disclaimer © TNAU 2008-2026 All Rights Reserved.
