Source: https://agritech.tnau.ac.in/crop_protection/rice/crop_prot_crop_insectpest _cereals_paddy_3.html

TNAU Agritech Portal :: Crop Protection Success Stories Farmers Association Farmers' Innovation Publications Contact Crop Protection  :: Pest of Rice Rice case worm:

Nymphula depunctalis Symptom of damage:

Larvae feed on green      tissues of the leaves and the leaves become whitish and papery and add green one Tubular cases around the      tillers by cutting the apical portion of leaves Floating of tubular cases on      the water Cutting off leaf tips to make      leaf cases Identification of insect pest:

Egg:

Individual      egg is circular, flattened, and measures 0.5 mm in diameter. It is light      yellow and has a smooth surface. Mature eggs are darker and develop two      purplish dots.

Larva:

Pale      translucent green with orange head. It has filamentous gills on the sides      of the body. The larvae are found hanging from the leaf and measures upto      15mm long.

Pupa:

The      pupa is cream in color and about 5.5 mm long. Mature pupa is silvery      white.

Adult : Moth      is small, delicate white with pale brown wavy markings. The adult moth is      about 5 mm long. It is bright white with light brown and black spots.

White scrapings on leaf due to feeding Cutting the apical portion of leaves Larva Adult Management:

ETL–2 FDL/hill (FDL- Fully Damaged Leaf)

The pest is semi aquatic and hence draining is the most effective method for the management of the pest.

Mix 400 ml of kerosene with 10 kg of sand and apply to the standing water. Dislodge the cases by passing a rope and then drain water; collect the cases and destroy.

Maintain field and bunds weed free. Do early planting and follow wider spacing.

Follow split fertilizer application.

Encourage biological control agents like hydrophilid and dytiscid water beetles which feed on larvae and spiders, dragonflies, and birds which feed on adults.

Spray phenthoate 50% EC @ 160 ml/ac.

Pass the rope to dislodge tubular cases  and eggs Hydrophilid beetle preys caseworm larva Success Stories Farmers Association Farmers' Innovation Publications Disclaimer © 2008-2024 TNAU. All Rights Reserved.
