Source: http://www.agritech.tnau.ac.in/expert_system/sugar/farmimplements.html

Expert System for Sugarcane
Expert System For Sugarcane
Home
|
About Us
|
Contact Us
Catagories
Botany & Climate
Season & Varieties
Nursery Management
Cultivation Practices
Sustainable Sugarcane Initiative
Irrigation Management
Nutrient Management
Crop Protection
Farm Implements
Post Harvest Technology
Marketing
Institutions & Schemes
FAQ's
Related Links
IMPLEMENTS  USED IN SUGARCANE CULTIVATION
Sugarcane  planter
Tractor  Operated Pit Digger for Sugar Cane Planting
Sugarcane  Sett Cutter
Sugarcane  Detrasher
Sugarcane Crusher
Sugarcane  Intercultivator
Earthing up  Ridger
Sugarcane  Stubble shaver
Ratoon  Manager
Weeder
Rotavator
Sugarcane  harvester
Sugarcane  bud chipper
I. Sugarcane planter:
This is a tractor mounted  machine and can be drawn by any tractor of 35 hp. This can be lifted or lowered  by the hydraulic system of the tractor.
Cane planting includes
Planting of sugarcanes in two rows.
Opening of  furrows at a spacing of 75 cm.
Cutting of  cane into 37 cm. long setts
Placement of  setts in the furrows
Droping of  fertilizer below the setts
Dispensing  the insecticide solution over the setts
Covering the  setts with soil and providing light compaction to minimise sett and soil  moisture loss
Advantages:
Irrigation water saving:20- 30%
Seed Saving:40%
Fertilizer Saving:40%
Full yield of Wheat and sugarcane is obtained.
The  cost of operation per ha in case of this equipment will be in the range of Rs.  2000 as compared to Rs. 7000 manually. Machine costs  approximately Rs.85,000
Top of page
2. Tractor Operated Pit Digger for Sugar Cane  Planting:
Function
For digging pits
Specification
i. Type  : Mounted implement
ii.Power requirement : 35 – 45 hp tractor
ii. Capacity : 250 to 300 holes / hour
General Information
Cost of the unit (Approx)  : Rs.85000/-
Cost of operation : Rs.300 / hour:
Saving in cost : 63%
Saving in time : 97%
Salient features
Dig         two pits of 90 cm dia simultaneously at 1.5 m interval to a depth of 30         cm suitable  for planting sugarcane setts
Planting         of cane in 1.5 x 1.5 m spacing with pit method favours higher cane yield
Recommended         as technology package under drip fertigation system for cane
Top of page
3. Sugarcane Sett Cutter:
Function
For cutting sugarcane sett with single bud
Specification
i. Type  : Motor operated
ii.Capacity  : One  sett / second
iii.Cost of the machine  (Approx) : Rs.2750/-
General Information
Cost of the unit (Approx)  : Rs.85000/-
Cost of operation : Rs.300 / hour:
Saving in cost : 63%
Saving in time : 97%
4. Sugarcane Detrasher
Function
For   de-trashing  the sugarcane leaves
Specification
i. Type  : Manual  operated
ii. Cost  of the unit (Approx)   : Rs.200/-
iii.Cost  of operation : Rs.900  / ha
Salient features
Labour         requirement is less
Easy         for handling
Reduced         cost of de-trashing
Used         for all varieties of cane
Also         removes the sprouted buds
Easy         collection of de-trashed leaves
Top of page
5.
Sugarcane Crusher
Function
Extraction  of juice from sugarcane
Specification
Type : Horizontal  type 4 roller crusher
Test Results
Suitability  for crops : Sugarcane
Capacity : 185  kg/h
Power  requirement : 5 hp  electric motor
Labour  requirement : Two
Shelling  extraction : 65%
Cost  of equipment : Rs  11,000/-
6. Sugarcane Intercultivator:
This newly developed  intercultivator, has two sets of tynes with three tynes in each set. This can  be hitched to the 
      heel-adjusted tractor. It can be run on the field 40 days  after planting to remove the weeds in between the crop in two
      rows. The escaped  weeds and other large dicot weeds within the rows can be removed by engaging  minimum labour.
  The improved  intercultivator can cover an extent of over a hectare in a day. Its  shovel-shaped tynes help in uprooting
      the deep-rooted tubers of the monocot  weeds, which is not possible with hand held spades or hoes.
Top of page
7. Earthing  up Ridger
Function :
For making ridges and earthing  up the sugarcane field.
Cost of the  equipment
:
Rs.15,000/-.
The  performance of an earthing up implement, which can be run in between the crop  rows to cover the nutrients applied as first top dressing on the 40th day of  planting. This tractor-drawn implement consists of two heavy body ridgers  fitted to a strong frame. When the crop is nearing 80 to 90 days of age, a  second top dressing is done, and the same implement can be used again for full  earthing up of the plants. This labour-saving implement can cover an area of  1.2-1.6 ha/day. The furrows are uniformly deep, and it facilitates uniform flow  of irrigation water in the field.
8. Sugarcane  Stubble shaver:
It is a single row stubble shaving with the field  capacity 0.26 ha /h. It consumes 3.5 liters diesel per acre. It helps in better  ratoon emergency in sugarcane.
It is tractor operated sugarcane stubble shaver. It can  be attached to any type of tractor with 35 hp powers. The whole unit can be  easily attached through tractor three point linkages. The innovation can cut  single row in a pass whereas the swinging blade type shavers can cut two rows  in a pass but it will give the superficial cut. The cost of the attachment is  about Rs.15,000/-.
Top of page
9
.
Ratoon  Manager:
Ratoon  manager is a tractor drawn implement mounted on a 3 point linkage driven by the  PTO. This is a combination of Stubble shaving, off-baring and harrowing. If  required, fertilizer & pesticide applicator can also be provided as an  optional. Ratoon manager will be the best if the field preparation (Ridges and  Furrow) is done with tractor and suitable for different row spacing. It shaves  the stubbles evenly and the off-baring helps to trim the roots. Harrowing  promotes better aeration and water penetration to rejuvenate and induce the  growth of the sugarcane.
10. Ridger  cum Weeder:
The  ridger-weeder is unique as it does both weeding and earthing-up in a single  operation in sugarcane crop. There is a saving in cost and time by more than 60  per cent. The cost of implement is Rs.75,000
Hence, in crop rows of 1.5  m normal spacing, the implement can be very easily used without damaging the  crop. The soil is cut up to 22.5 cm depth and is lifted up on the wing board on  each side. The lifted soil is thrown on both sides. The tractor is moved in  `alternating field machine pattern' in the field by going from one end of the  field in one direction between first and second row. The machine can cover  about 0.8 ha per hour depending upon soil type.
Top of page
11.  Rotavator:
Rotavator,  unlike traditional implements can produce a seed bed with one or two passes. The  tractor/rotavator combination can commence cultivation much sooner after rain  than traditional drawn implements. It is most suitable for Sugarcane stubble  removal, eradication of rhizomes.
Product  Specification
1. Supporting chassis: tractor
2. External dimensions (L X W X H): 11500×2500×5900mm
3. Power: 191KW（260HP）
4. Productivity:  min30T/h
5. Row spacing: min1.4m
6. Length of cane part: 200-300mm
12. Sugarcane combine harvester:
Range  of application
:
Plan, Mountain area, Hill, Dry field.
Function
:
1. Loading sugarcane, wood,  and other agricultural use.
2. Loading sandy soil, stone and other construction  use.
Feature
:
Lifting high, loading       height can reach 4.25m; it can meet all truck loading sugarcane needing.
High-power, mate with four       cylinder 260hp engine.
It is well established       for its flexible operations with wide base tire, full hydraulic       transmission and steering.
It can harvest 1.2 ha/day       ie., 20 tone/hr.
Main Technical Parameter
Operating weight (Kg):3600
Rate load       (kg):1200
Static load (kw):2400
Top of page
13. Sugarcane Bud Chipper:
Function:
Remove the buds from cane.
Machine  details:
It is floor-mounted and equipped with a knife with  a semicircular edge to surgically cut out the buds. The machine, priced at Rs.  600. The unit allows the user to be comfortably seated on the ground and  continuously feed the cane with the left hand, while swinging the right arm in  a smooth arc to cut the sugarcane buds using the ergonomic spring loaded handle.  The machine requires no power or fuel to run it, weighs a few kilograms making  transport easy. The scope of this equipment lies beyond just removing buds from  the cane.
Top of page
Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved