Source: http://www.agritech.tnau.ac.in/expert_system/sugar/harvesting.html

Expert System for Sugarcane
Expert System For Sugarcane
Home
|
About Us
|
Contact Us
Categories
Botany & Climate
Season & Varieties
Nursery Management
Cultivation Practices
Sustainable Sugarcane Initiative
Irrigation Management
Nutrient Management
Crop Protection
Farm Implements
Post Harvest Technology
Marketing
Institutions & Schemes
FAQ's
Related Links
Harvesting
About Harvesting
Harvesting Process
Types of Harvesting
Maturity  symptoms and Harvesting period
Processing of Sugarcane
By Products
Harvesting process
Time of Harvesting
Harvesting of  sugarcane at a proper time i.e. peak maturity, by adopting right technique is  necessary to realize maximum weight of the millable canes (thus sugar) produced  with least possible field losses under the given growing environment.  Harvesting either under-aged or over-aged cane with improper method of  harvesting leads to loss in cane yield, sugar recovery, poor juice quality and  problems in milling due to extraneous matter.
Therefore, proper harvesting should ensure
:
To harvest the cane at       peak maturity (i.e., avoiding cutting of either over-matured or       under-matured cane)
Cutting cane to ground       level so that the bottom sugar rich internodes are harvested which add to       yield and sugar
De-topping at appropriate       height so that the top immature internodes are eliminated
Proper cleaning of the       cane i.e., removing the extraneous matter such as leaves, trash, roots       etc.
Quick disposal of the       harvested cane to factory
Harvesting:
Sugarcane
matures in 10-12 month in North India and 18-20  month in South India. Brix value is 16-18 in Dec and Jan at or below 200 C.  Different Indicators of harvesting are leaves become yellow, plants stops  growing and arrows come out, cane produces metallic sounds, buds swell out and  eyes start sprouting.
Top of page
Harvesting  Schedule
In India harvesting of  sugarcane is carried out at 10 to 18 months stage, depending upon the planting  time and crop maturity.
In sub-tropics, autumn crop is harvested at 15 month  stage, whereas spring and summer (late-planted) crops at 10-12 months. Early  varieties are harvested at 10 months stage, mid-late 10-12 months and late  after 12 month stage. In tropical zone adsali crop is harvested after 16-18  months stage.
Types of harvesting
Manual Harvesting
Hand knives, cutting blade or hand axes are used  for manual harvesting. It requires skilled labourers as improper harvest of  cane leads to loss of cane and sugar yield, poor juice quality and problems in  milling due to extraneous matter.
Mechanical Harvesting
Sugarcane  is harvested by
mechanical harvester
which move along the  rows of cane removing the leafy tops of the cane and cutting the stalk into  short pieces or "billets". Billets are loaded into bins which are  towed alongside the harvester. When full, the bins are taken by road or tramway  to the sugar mill.
The field capacity of mechanical cane  harvesters varies with the size (2.5 to 4 ha per day of 8 hours.
Top of page
Maturity  symptoms and Harvesting period
Pre – harvest practices
a. Apply cane ripeners
Spray  Sodium metasilicate 4 kg/ha in 750 litres of water on the foliage of crop at 6  months after planting.
Ii.Repeat  the same twice at 8th and 10th months to obtain higher cane yield and sugar  percentage.
b. Assessing maturity of crops
Assess the  maturity by hand refractometer brix survey and 18 to 20 per cent brix indicates  optimum maturity for harvest.
Top-bottom  ratio of H.R.Brix reading should be 1:1.
Harvesting
Harvesting of sugarcane at a  proper time i.e., peak maturity, by adopting right technique is necessary to  realize maximum weight of the millable canes (thus sugar) produced with least  possible field losses under the given growing environment.
On the other hand harvesting either under-aged or  over-aged cane with improper method of harvesting leads to loss in cane yield,  sugar recovery, poor juice quality and problems in milling due to extraneous  matter.
Prevention  of Moisture loss in the Harvested cane
Covering the  harvested cane with trash and sprinkling with water both under sun and shade  reduced the moisture loss and prevented quality deterioration. Among the  varieties studied, maximum loss of moisture (5.9%) was recorded by the variety  Co 86249 while the varieties Co 94008 and Co 85019 have registered minimum loss  of moisture (4.7%).
Therefore, proper harvesting  should ensure:
To harvest the cane at peak maturity (i.e., avoiding       cutting of either over-matured or under-matured cane)
Early varieties have to be harvested at 10 to       11 months age and mid-season varieties at 11 to 12 months age.
Cutting cane to ground level so that the bottom       sugar rich internodes are harvested which add to yield and sugar
De-topping at appropriate height so that the top       immature internodes are eliminated
Proper cleaning of the cane i.e., removing the       extraneous matter such as leaves, trash, roots etc.
Quick disposal of the harvested cane to factory
Purity Percentage = (Sucrose  %/HR Brix)100
A cane crop is  considered fit for harvesting if it has attained a minimum of 16% sucrose  and 85% purity.
CCS (tons/ha) = [Yield  (tons/ha) x Sugar Recovery (%)] /100
Sugar Recovery (%) = [S - 0.4  (B - S)] x 0.73
Where, S= Sucrose % in juice  and B= Corrected Brix (%)
Cane yield
Cane yield = stalk number x  single cane weight
stalk number depends on
Germination %
Tillering capacity
Percent cane formed shoots and their retention till       harvest.
Stalk weight depends on
Length of cane
Diameter of the cane.
Harvesting should be aimed to realise maximum number       of millable canes produced with least possible losses.
Top of page
General
The integrated production  strategies for harvesting the maximum cane yield includes
Selection of suitable varieties  specific to the locations
Through land preparation
Use of healthy nursery seed  material
Planting at proper season with  suitable varieties
Maintaining optimum plant  population through adequate gap filling
Application of appropriate  herbicide combinations for effective control of the weeds
Enrichment of the organic content  of the soil by way of application of bulky organic manures or in situ  incorporation of green manure crops.
Application of correct dose of  inorganic fertilizers based on soil test recommendations. Need based micro  nutrient can be applied.
Use of bio fertilizers Especially  Azospirillum, Acetobacter and Phosphobacteria
Adoption of integrated pest and  disease management stratagies
Appropriate water management  practices and especially adopting drip fertigation systems
Harvesting at appropriate time and  upto bottom of the cane using sharp knives.
For  Ratoon
Collect the trash without burning
Stubble shaving for obtaining uniform sprouting
Shoulder breaking for loosening the soil compaction and cut  the old roots
Apply additionally 70 kg N/ha as basal to boost initial  growth
Ferrous sulphate can be sprayed (5 kg/ha) for correcting the  Iron Chlorosis
Top of page
PROCESSING OF  SUGARCANE
Collecting  the harvested cane
Mature  canes are gathered by a combination of manual and mechanical methods. Canes are  cut at ground level, its leaves are removed and the top is trimmed off by  cutting off the last mature joint. Cane is then placed into large piles and  picked up, tied, and transported to a
sugar
factory.
Prevention of moisture loss in  the harvested cane
Covering the harvested cane with trash and sprinkling  with water both under sun and shade reduced the moisture loss and prevented  quality deterioration.
Cleaning and Crushing
Stalks  are thoroughly washed and cut when reaching the sugar mill. After the cleaning  process, a machine led by a series of rotating knives, shreds the cane into  pieces. This is known as "grinding." During grinding, hot water is  sprayed on to the sugarcane to dissolve any remaining hard sugar. The smaller  pieces of cane are then spread out on a conveyer belt.
Juicing
The  shredded pieces of sugarcane travel on the conveyer belt through a series of  heavy-duty rollers, which extract
juice
from the pulp. The pulp that remains or  "bagasse" is dried and used as fuel. The raw juice moves on through  the mill to be clarified.
Clarifying
Carbon  dioxide and the
milk
of a lime are added to the  liquid sugar mixture and it is heated to the boiling point, as the process of  clarifying begins. As the carbon dioxide travels through the liquid it forms  calcium carbonate, which attracts non-sugar debris (fats, gums, and wax) from  the juice, and pulls them away from the sugar juice. The juice is then pushed  through a series of filters to remove any remaining impurities.
Evaporation
The  clear juice which results from the clarifying process is put under a vacuum,  where the juice boils at a low temperature and begins to evaporate. It is  heated until it forms into thick, brown syrup.
Crystallization
By  evaporating what little water is left in the sugar syrup, crystallization takes  place. Inside a sterilized vacuum pan, pulverized sugar is fed into the pan as  the liquid evaporates, causing the formation of crystals. The remaining mixture  is a thick mass of large crystals, which is sent to a centrifuge to spin and  dry the crystals. The dried product is raw sugar, still inedible.
Refinery
Raw  sugar is transported to a Cane Sugar Refinery for the removal molasses,  minerals and other non-sugars, which still contaminate the sugar. This is known  as the purification process. Raw sugar is mixed with a solution of sugar and  water to loosen the molasses from the outside of the raw sugar crystals,  producing a thick matter known as "magma." Large machines then spin  the magma, which separate the molasses from the crystals. Crystals are promptly  washed, dissolved and filtered to remove impurities. The golden syrup which is  produced is then sent through filters to remove the color and water. What's  left is concentrated, clear syrup, which is again fed into a vacuum pan.
Separation and Packaging
Once  the final evaporation and drying process is done, screens separate the  different sized sugar crystals. Large and small crystals are packaged and shipped,  labeled as white, refined sugar.
Sugar  Facts
Refined
white sugar is 99.9-percent sucrose.
White
sugar is pure sucrose, containing no preservatives or additives.
Top of page
NUTRITIONAL VALUE
Sugar,    granulated
Nutritional    value per 100 g (3.5 oz)
Sugars,    brown
Nutritional    value per 100 g (3.5 oz)
Energy
-
1,619 kJ (387 kcal)
Carbohydrates
- 99.98 g
Sugars- 99.91 g
Dietary    fiber
- 0 g
Fat
- 0 g
Protein
- 0 g
Water
- 0.03 g
Riboflavin (Vit. B2)
-  0.019 mg    (1%)
Calcium
- 1 mg (0%)
Iron
- 0.01 mg (0%)
Potassium
- 2 mg (0%)
Energy
- 1,576 kJ (377 kcal)
Carbohydrates
- 97.33 g
Sugars- 96.21 g
Dietary    fiber
- 0 g
Fat
- 0 g
Protein
- 0 g
Water
- 1.77 g
Riboflavin (Vit. B2)
- 0.007 mg (0%)
Calcium
- 85 mg (9%)
Iron
- 1.91 mg (15%)
Potassium
- 346 mg (7%)
Folate
(Vit. B9) - 1 μg (0%)
Magnesium
- 29 mg (8%)
Phosphorus
- 22 mg (3%)
Sodium
- 39 mg (2%)
Zinc
- 0.18 mg (2%)
By- Products
Raw sugar
Raw sugar is obtained from the processing of the       sugar cane juice extracted from the sugar cane stalks.
The juice is clarified with lime and subsequently       concentrated to produce massecuites which is a mixture of crystals and       surrounding dense, dark brown liquid called molasses.
The crystals (raw sugar) are separated from the       molasses by centrifugation.
Refined sugar is purified white sugar of       approximately 99.50 pol, a moisture content of around 0.03% and       an colour of less than 45.
Sugarcane Juice
The sugarcane variety for juice should give high in       juice extraction and have high sugar content. Some of the varieties which       are ideally suited for bottling of juice are CoC 671, Co 62175, Co 7717,       Co 86032 and Co94012.
The canes should be cleaned free of roots at the       nodes and adhering soil particles.
It is preferable to remove the rind portion of the       cane by suitable means as the pigments present in the rind contribute to       dark colour and unpleasant taste to the juice.
The canes should be crushed in clean power operated       crusher (preferably with stainless steel rollers)
Then juice collected after filtration through muslin       cloth into a clean sterilized stainless steel vessel.
One medium sized lemon and 2-3g of ginger can be       added for every 3kg of cane while the canes are crushed.
Gur or Jaggery
The result of the milling process is pure whole  unrefined non-centrifugal cane sugar, called Panela (right). The earliest  modern record of Panela is around 3000BC in India, where Panela was known as  Gur Jaggery, or more commonly today Gur, or 'poor people’s sugar'.
Procedure for Preparation of jaggery:
1. Fresh sugarcanes are cut from the fields, canes  are cut in such a way that the head and tail are chopped off. They are  carefully brought in a plastic sack, to the place where they are made juice.
2. To extract juice from the sugarcane, they use a  small power run machine, where at one side four or five canes are fed, and at  the other end, extracted sugar cane juice is directly feed to the vessel.
3. Next step involved is boiling the extracted  juice, juice is feed to a large big iron vessel, which is usually called as  kadai.
Molasses
Molasses is a viscous byproduct of the processing  of sugar cane. To make molasses, the sugar cane juice is extracted from the  canes, usually by crushing or mashing; it can also be removed by cutting. The  juice is boiled to concentrate it, which promotes the crystallization of the  sugar. The result of this first boiling and removal of the sugar crystals is  first molasses, which has the highest sugar content because comparatively  little sugar has been extracted from the source. Second molasses is created  from a second boiling and sugar extraction, and has a slight bitter tinge to  its taste.
The  third boiling of the sugar syrup makes blackstrap molasses. The majority of  sucrose from the original juice has been crystallized, but blackstrap molasses  is still mostly sugar by calories. However, unlike refined sugars, it contains  significant amounts of vitamins and minerals. Blackstrap molasses is a source  of calcium, magnesium, potassium, and iron; one tablespoon provides up to 20%  of the daily value of each of those nutrients. Blackstrap, often sold as a  health supplement, is also used in the manufacture of cattle feed and for other  industrial uses.
Bagasse
The bagasse (or the crushed cane fibres), which  results from the milling, is used in the boilers for steam production which is  used to power the process. The surplus bagasse is used in industry, to produce  power, make paper, building materials, as a fuel and even as stock feeds.
Ethanol
Sugarcane  can also be used to make ethanol, a liquid that can be used as an automotive  fuel or a gasoline additive. Sugarcane is an excellent feedstock because the  biomass of the sugarcane plant is relatively rich in the sugar that can be  readily turned into fuel. Brazil is the world’s leading producer of sugarcane  ethanol and it is estimated that upward of 40% of Brazil’s transportation  energy needs are met by sugar cane ethanol.
Syrup
Sugar cane
syrup is athick  syrup that is created by evaporating the juice  extracted from sections of sugar cane. The preparation  of this type of cane syrup usually involves boiling the juice for several hours, and making sure to skim  the surface of the juice throughout the  process. When prepared properly, this approach yields a thick syrup that is  extremely sweet, making it ideal for use in both home cooking and the preparation of commercial foods
Candy
Candy is a type of
confectionery
mineral
composed of relatively large
sugar
crystals
. The
candy
is formed by allowing a
supersaturated
solution of sugar and
water
to crystallize onto a surface suitable for crystal
nucleation
,  such as a string or stick. Heating the water before adding the sugar allows  more sugar to dissolve and thus produces larger crystals. Crystals form after  6–7 days.
Food coloring
may be added to the mixture to produce  colored
candy
.
Rum
Rum is a distilled beverage made from sugarcane by products such as  molasses and sugarcane juice by a process of fermentation and distillation. The  distillate, a clear liquid, is then usually aged in oak and other barrels
Filter cake or mud  press
Filter cake or mud press is a chocolate, sticky  waste during juice extraction of cane stalks containing 5-15 % protein, calcium  and phosphorus; 5-15 % sugar; 10-30% fiber; 10-20% ash and other  micronutrients. It is a by-product with high potential as important component  of organic fertilizer and animal feed and as source of sugarcane wax and  methane (gas for fuel) when process.
Top of page
Yeast
Yeasts are  complex, protein-rich, living unicellular organisms that have been selected and  isolated through research,
Saccharomyces cerevisiae
to produce  baker's yeast. It is normally produced from molasses. About 4 kg of molasses  would be required to produce 1 kg of active dry baker's yeast (92 percent dry  matter). Yeast is used in bread production at about 1 percent by weight of  flour. On a dry matter basis, it contains about 44 percent protein
Confectionary
Sugar confectionery refers to a large range of food items, commonly known as  sweets. Boiled sweets, toffees, marshmallows, and fondant are all examples.
Today, sugar  confectionery includes a large range of food items, commonly known as sweets.  Some examples are; Boiled sweets, Toffees, and Marshmallows.
Sugarcane Tops
Sugarcane  tops are a major by-product of the sugarcane industry which is left in the  field after harvest and widely used for feeding draught animals or cattle owned  by workers on the sugar estates or by the sugar companies. The tops, or leaves  from sugarcane are mostly fed to large ruminants and so do not normally  constitute a feed resource for small stock.
Top of page
Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved