Source: http://www.agritech.tnau.ac.in/expert_system/sugar/nurserymanagement.html

Expert System for Sugarcane
Expert System For Sugarcane
Home
|
About Us
|
Contact Us
Categories
Botany & Climate
Season & Varieties
Nursery Management
Cultivation Practices
Sustainable Sugarcane Initiative
Irrigation Management
Nutrient Management
Crop Protection
Farm Implements
Post Harvest Technology
Marketing
Institutions & Schemes
FAQ's
Related Links
Nursery  Management
About Nursery Management
How to select Location for raising Nursery crop
Soil preparations
Selection of seed cane
Sett treatment
Spacing
Polybag nursery
How to select Location for raising Nursery crop
Soil should be without       problems like alkalinity, salinity, water logging etc.
There should be adequate       irrigation facility.
The seed plots should be       distributed in different divisions or sections and accessible for easy       distribution.
There should be good road       facility for easy and quick transport.
The farmers should be       progressive.
Primary nurseries should       be located in the factory farm/research station farm/Government seed farm.
Top of page
Soil preparations
Ploughing and cultivation is essential so that a       good seed bed is prepared.
A higher amount of organic manures is advantageous       for nursery crops for obtaining a vigorous crop.
Apply 25 to 30 tonnes of FYM or cured press mud may       be applied about 15 days before planting.
Spacing
To get a higher yield of setts a slightly narrower       spacing is advantageous.
Space should be75cm between the rows.
Top of page
Sett treatment
a.  Preparation of setts for planting:
Take seed material from short crop (6 to 7 months age)  free from pests and diseases incidence.
Harvest the seed crop one day before planting to  obtain higher percentage and uniform germination.
Detrash the cane with hand before setts preparation.
Avoid damage to buds while cutting setts.
Planting material or seed cane should be free from  aerial roots and splits.
Change the seed material after every two to three  seasons. In case if it is inevitable to use mature cane as seed, the top  one-third portion can be used satisfactorily.
b. Sett treatment with Azospirillum:
Prepare the slurry with 10 packets (2000 g/ha) of      Azospirillum inoculum with sufficient water and soak the setts in the slurry for 15      minutes before planting.
c. Sett treatment with fungicide:
The setts should be soaked in Carbendazim (1 gram in
1litre of  water)
d
.
Aerated steam treatment:
Treat setts with Aerated steam at 50 o C for one hour to      control primary  infection of grassy shoot  disease.
Before planting setts
1.  Use short crop (6-8 months) seed materials
2.  Discard pest, disease affected and damaged buds and canes.
3.  Do not trash & prop.
4.  Apply 125 kg Urea / ha + 125 kg MOP/ha one month prior to harvest
5.  Irrigate the crop well before harvest
6.  Detrash the cane with hand at the time of sett preparation
7
.
Selection of proper planting months for raising nursery  crop in relation to main field      planting.
Top of page
Raise six to seven months old nursery crop prior to main  field planting as follows:
Raise nursery crop during
Main field planting
June
December - January (early season)
July
February - March (Mid season)
August
April - May (Late season)
Dec – Apr
June - September (Special season)
Polybag nursery
Generally sugarcane is grown by planting the  seeds setts directly into the field.  But some times, when the water is in short supply or the field is occupied with some other crop, buds  or seed setts can be planted in polythene bags to raise nursery.
Polythene bags of 10x15cm filled  with soil and compost mixture (in 1:1 ratio) are arranged closely in an open  space, close to water source.
Scooped buds are at 1-2 cm depth.
Cut sugarcane pieces with one bud can also be  used for raising the nursery.
Insert these cut pieces into the soil, filled bags up to the node level, keeping  buds just touching the soil.
Irrigate these bags twice a week. Saplings will  be ready for planting in 60 days.
Top of page
Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved