Source: https://agritech.tnau.ac.in/postharvest/pht_cereal_rice_value_addition_procs_prdct.html

Cereals :: Rice Success Stories Farmers Association Farmers' Innovation Publications Contact Post Harvest Technology :: Agriculture :: Cereals :: Rice :: Value Addition PROCESSED PRODUCT Parched rice It is prepared by throwing  rice in sand heated to a high temperature in an iron or mud pan. On stirring,  rice begins to crackle and swell. Then the content of the pan are removed and  sieved to separate the parched rice from sand. Parboiled rice is used for making  grayish to brilliant white colour parched rice and sold either salted or  unsalted. It is eaten as such or mixed with butter milk or milk.

Expanded cereals Expanded rice (Pori)

Expanded rice (murmura, pori, muri) is a traditional  convenience food widely consumed in India either as such or with Jaggery, roasted  Bengal gram and shredded vegetables and spices. The product is mostly produced  in home or cottage sector by skilled artisans.

In the  traditional process, the paddy is soaked in water preferably over night until  saturation, drained and then either steamed or dry roasted in sand for  parboiling. The parboiled paddy is milled, salted and again roasted in sand for  expansion.

Flow chart Puffed rice :- (using  rice)

This popular ready-to-eat snack product is obtained by  puffing milled parboiled rice. In the traditional process rice is gently heated  on the furnace without sand to reduce the moisture content slightly. It is then  mixed with salt solution and again roasted on furnace in small batches with sand  on a strong fire for a few seconds to produce the expanded rice. Rice expands  about 8 times retaining the grain shape and is highly porous and crisp.

Parched paddy or  puffed rice:- (using paddy)

Sun dried paddy is filled in mud jars and is moistened with  hot water. After 2-3 min. the water is decanted and the jars are kept in an  inverted position for 8-10 hours. Next the paddy is exposed to the sun for a  short time and then parched in hot sand as in the preparation of parched rice.  Puffed rice is prepared by throwing pretreated paddy into sand heated to a high  temperature in an iron pan. During parching the grain swell and burst into a  soft white product. The parched grains are sieved to remove sand and winnowed  to separate the husk.

Puffed rice from parboiled  rice The rice is soaked in salt water to increase the moisture to  about 20%. The moist rice is introduced into a hot vessel at about 250-275 for 30-40 seconds. The rice puffs suddenly.

Popped rice This  is yet another traditional value added product prepared from raw paddy. The  paddy at a moisture content of 12-14% is directly roasted in iron pans using  sand as a medium at a temperature of 150-200 . The production of  popped rice is comparatively less and the product is mainly used in religious  functions and ceremonies.

Flaked rice is another  important value added product prepared from paddy. Traditionally, it is  prepared from soaked paddy, after heat treatment and immediate flattening using  a flaking machine (an edge runner).

Flow Chart Flaked  rice is made from parboiled rice.  Paddy is soaked in water for 2 -3 days to soften the kernel followed by boiling  water for a few minutes and the water is drained off. The paddy is heated in a  shallow earthen vessel or sand in iron pan till the husks break open. It is  pounded by a wooden pestle which flattens the kernel and removes the husk. The  husk is separated by winnowing. Flaked rice is thin and papery and of white  colour.

Quick  cooking rice is made by steeping polished rice in water to a moisture  content of 35 per cent, cooking under pressure and drying. Alternatively the  rice may be subjected to freezing, thawing and dehydration.

Derived products Polished  rice may be precooked and canned as rice pudding and also used to make dry  breakfast cereals.

Success Stories Farmers Association Publications © 2015 TNAU. All Rights Reserved.
