Source: https://agritech.tnau.ac.in/postharvest/pht_cereal_rice_value_addition_fermnt_prdct.html

Cereals :: Rice Success Stories Farmers Association Farmers' Innovation Publications Contact Post Harvest Technology :: Agriculture :: Cereals :: Rice :: Value Addition FERMENTED       PRODUCTS BASED ON RICE Idli Idli is a small, white acid – leavened, and steamed cake made  by bacterial fermentation (12-18 hours) of a thick batter made from rice and  dehulled blackgram dhal. Idlies are soft, moist and spongy had a desirable sour  flavour. For idli, the rice was coarsely ground and the black gram was finely  ground. The soft spongy texture observed in the  leavened steamed idli made out of black gram is due to the presence of two  components, namely surface active protein (globulin) and an arabinogalactan  (polysaccharide) in black gram. The mucilaginous principle of blackgram is  identified as arabinogalactan. It is believed that this mucilaginous principle  helps in the retention of carbondioxide during the fermentation of the thick  batter and is thus responsible for the soft spongy honey comb texture of the  idli.  Fermentation brings about physical  and chemical changes in the idli batter. With the progress of fermentation  there is an increase in batter volume, acidity and non protein nitrogen.

Dosa Dosa  is another common fermented product used in India. This is prepared from a  fermented batter of rice and pulse in the proportions ranging from 6:1 to 10:1.  Both the ingredients are finely ground, unlike in the idli batter which  contains the rice component in a coarse consistency. The dosa batter is very  thin and dosa is baked on a hot pan. The thickness of a thin pancake depends  upon the consistency of the batter. Thin batter gives a thin pancake, although  it may stick to the pan.

Dhokla Dhokla  is a fermented food prepared from rice and bengal gram. This is popular in West  India, particularly Gujarat. This is prepared  from a batter of coarsely ground rice and bengal gram. The fermented batter is  steamed in a pie dish, cut into diamond shape and seasoned.

Other fermented products Some  other fermented foods based on rice used in the country are ambali, prepared  from a thick fermented batter of finger millet flour and rice, ganji,  fermented, surplus water from cooked rice and fermented rice or kali which is  left over cooked rice to which water is added and the mixture allowed to  ferment overnight.

Success Stories Farmers Association Publications © 2015 TNAU. All Rights Reserved.
