Source: https://agritech.tnau.ac.in/postharvest/pht_cereal_rice_value_addition_instantmix_prdct.html

Cereals :: Rice Success Stories Farmers Association Farmers' Innovation Publications Contact Post Harvest Technology :: Agriculture :: Cereals :: Rice :: Value Addition INSTANT MIXES PREPARATION OF IDLI MIX Instant  idli mixes eliminate the traditional method of grinding of both the ingredients  and the leavening is produced by the action of chemical leavening agents.

Preparation of rice and black gram flours The parboiled rice IR 20 was soaked in water for 5 hours.  Then the water was drained completely and dried in solar drier for 5 hrs. The  dried rice was ground in a mixie and sieved through BS 36 sieve. Black gram  dhal was also ground in a mixie and sieved (BS 36). The rice and black gram  flour were dried in a cabinet drier at 80 for 2 hrs, cooled and  packed in air tight containers till they were used.

The parboiled rice IR 20 was soaked in water for 5 hours.  Then the water was drained completely and dried in solar drier for 5 hrs. The  dried rice was ground in a mixie and sieved through BS 36 sieve. Black gram  dhal was also ground in a mixie and sieved (BS 36). The rice and black gram  flour were dried in a cabinet drier at 80 for 2 hrs, cooled and  packed in air tight containers till they were used.

Materials required Ingredients Volume (g)

Rice flour 80 g Black gram dhal flour 20 g Salt 2 g Citric acid 0.05 % NaHCO3 0.2% Method The ground rice and       blackgram dhal flours were mixed at the ratio of 4:1.

The salt, citric acid       and sodium bicarbonate were added and mixed thoroughly.

Another batch of instant       mix was prepared by adding yeast (0.1%) without the addition of citric       acid and sodium bicarbonate.

PREPARATION OF INSTANT  IDIAPPAM MIX Idiappam is a traditional food prepared from  the combination of parboiled rice and raw rice. It is consumed as breakfast /  dinner for the peoples especially South Indians. It is a steamed product and  consumed as either in the form of sweet or savoury dish (lime bath, tomato bath  and curd bath).

Procedure Preparation of rice flour The  parboiled rice – IR 20 and raw rice was soaked in water for 5 hours separately.  Then the water was drained completely and dried in the solar drier for 5 hrs.  The dried rice was ground in a mixie and sieved through BS 36 sieve.

Materials required Ingredients Volume (g)

Parboiled rice flour 50 Raw rice flour 50 Salt 2 Method Mix  all the ingredients and stored, in the polythene bag.

Preparation of idiappam The  idiappam mix (100 g) was steamed in a steaming unit for 5 minutes (idli  cooker). To the steamed flour, required quantity of boiling water (90 ,  120 ml) was added and made into dough. The dough was extruded through hand  noodle press, steamed in the idli cooker for 10 minutes. The prepared idiappam was  organoleptically evaluated.

PREPARATION OF MURUKKU INSTANT MIX Method Raw  rice and black gram were ground in a mill separately and sieved through 80 BS  sieve and used for the preparation of murukku instant mix.

Ingredients Ingredients Volume (g)

Rice flour (%)

90 Black gram flour    (%)

10 Salt (g)

2 Water (ml)

92 White sesame seed 5 The crispy mix was prepared by mixing raw rice flour, black  gram dhal flour, salt and sesame seed. The mix was passed through 80 BS sieve  for uniform mixing.

Method for the preparation of murukku The dough was prepared by the addition of hydrogenated fat –5  g and water and extruded in a hand extruder of local make with 4 mm diameter  orifice and fried in the heated oil at 180 for 3-5 minutes.

PREPARATION OF VADAGAM Vadagam is a traditional  product mostly prepared from rice flour and also sago. It is a deep fat fried  product and consumed as a side dish in the meals Preparation of vadagam Materials required Raw  rice flour, green chillies, cumin seeds and salt.

Ingredients Volume (g)

Rice flour (%)

100 g Green chillies 1.5 g Cumin seeds 4.0 g Salt 2.0 g Method The  ingredients were mixed and 250 ml of water was added and cooked for 10 minutes  until a thick extrudable paste was formed. The hot paste was extruded in hand  extruder (dia 5 mm) and dried in sun for about five hours. The dried vadagam  sample was packed in a polyethylene bags and sealed.

Frying of vadagam Dried  rice vadagam was fried in the refined oil at 180 for 40 seconds.  The vadagam was organoleptically evaluated.

Success Stories Farmers Association Publications © 2015 TNAU. All Rights Reserved.
