Source: http://www.agritech.tnau.ac.in/crop_protection/rice_diseases/rice_8.html

TNAU Agritech Portal :: Crop Protection Success Stories Farmers Association Farmers' Innovation Publications Contact Agricultural crops :: Cereals :: Rice Bacterial Leaf Streak :Causal organism:

Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzicola Symptoms :

Fine translucent streaks are formed on the veins and the lesions enlarge lengthwise and infect larger veins and turn brown On the surface of the lesions, bacterial ooze comes out and form form small yellow band-like exudates under humid conditions.

In severe cases the leaves dry up.

SYMPTOMS Pathogen Character:

The bacterium is aerobic, gram negative, non spore forming, rod with size ranging from 1-2 x 0.8-1.0􀀀m with monotrichous polar flagellum..

Bacterial colonies are circular, convex with entire margins, whitish yellow to straw yellow colored and opaque.

Favourable conditions/Epidemiology:

Clipping of tip of the seedling at the time of transplanting.

Heavy rain, heavy dew, flooding, deep irrigation water.

Severe wind and temperature of 25-30 °c Application of excessive nitrogen, especially late top dressing Mode of spread and survival: :

It is transmitted through seeds and infected stubbles to the next planting season.

The pathogen spreads through irrigation water and also through rain storms.

Management:

Cultural method :

Burn the stubbles.

Use optimum dose of fertilizers.

Avoid clipping of tip of seedling at the time of transplanting.

Avoid flooded conditions.

Remove weed hosts periodically.

Chemical Method  :

Seed treatment: Soaking of seeds in streptomycin sulphate 90% and tetracycline 10% SP @ 40 ppm for 12 hours or seedling root dipping @ 40 ppm for 30 minutes.

Foliar spray in the main field @ 100-150 ppm. Repeat the spray after 15 days, if required.

Source of information:

AICRIP rice, TNAU, Coimbatore, Rice diseases- online resource, IRRI, Phillippines.

Acknowledgements:

IRRI, Phillippines Success Stories Farmers Association Publications Disclaimer © TNAU 2008-2026 All Rights Reserved.
