Source: http://www.agritech.tnau.ac.in/crop_protection/rice_diseases/rice_24.html

TNAU Agritech Portal :: Crop Protection Success Stories Farmers Association Farmers' Innovation Publications Contact Agricultural crops :: Cereals :: Rice Rice tungro virus: Rice tungro bacilliform virus (RTBV) and Rice tungro spherical virus (RTSV)

Vector : Green leafhopper, Nephotettix virescens :

Other Management Symptoms Plants       affected by tungro exhibit stunting and reduced tillering. Leaves become       yellow or orange-yellow, it may also have rust-colored spots.

Yellowing starts from the tip of the leaf and may extend to the lower part of the leaf blade. Third leaf from the top most infected plants is taller than other leaves.

Young leaves are often mottled with pale green to whitish interveinal stripes and the old leaves may have rusty streaks of various sizes.

Delayed flowering - panicles are small and not completely exerted Most panicles are sterile or partially filled grains.

The plants may be killed if infected early.

Tungro virus disease affects all growth stages of the rice plant specifically high at vegetative stage.

Special detection technique:

Detection techniques :

Tungro infected plants can be chemically identified by lodine Test:

Collect leaf       samples at 6 a.m.

The top 10 cm       portion of the leaf is immersed in a solution containing 2 g of iodine and       6 g of potassium iodide in 100 ml of water for 15 minutes or 10 ml of       tincture of iodine + 140 ml of water for one hour. Washed in water for       detection.

Tungro       infected leaves develop dark blue streaks.

Factors favouring disease development:

Presence of       the virus sources.

Presence of       the vector.

Age and       susceptibility of host plants.

Synchronization       of the three above factors.

All growth       stages of rice plant specifically the vegetative stage YELLOW LEAF INFECTED FIELD INFECTED AND NON-INFECTED FIELD Orange Yellow Discolouration Severe Stunting and Yellowing Green Leaf Hopper Success Stories Farmers Association Publications Disclaimer © TNAU 2008-2026 All Rights Reserved.
