Source: http://www.agritech.tnau.ac.in/crop_protection/rice_diseases/rice_7.html

TNAU Agritech Portal :: Crop Protection Success Stories Farmers Association Farmers' Innovation Publications Contact Agricultural crops :: Cereals :: Rice False smut / Lakshmi disease Causal organism:

Ustilaginoidea virens (Sexual stage: Villosiclava virens)

Symptoms :

The fungus transforms individual ovaries/grains into greenish spore balls of velvety appearance.

Few to several spikelets in a panicle are affected.

Pathogen :

Sclerotia present in soil germinate and produce ascospores. They serve as primary source of inoculum.

Chlamydospores are formed in the infected grains as spore balls which are spherical to elliptical, warty and olivaceous.

Smut spores are air borne and responsible for secondary spread.

Favourable Conditions:

Rainfall and cloudy weather during flowering and maturity, high soil nitrogen.

Initially smut balls are yellow and turn greenish black at maturity Management:

Preventive methods Grow moderately resistant varieties viz., CO 59.

Use of       disease-free seeds that are selected from healthy crop.

Split       application of nitrogen is recommended.

Removal and       proper disposal of infected plant debris.

Cultural methods :

Among the cultural control, destruction of straw and stubble from infected plants is recommended to reduce the disease.

.

Early planted crop has less smut balls than the late planted crop.

At the time of harvesting, diseased plants should be removed and destroyed so that sclerotia do not fall in the field..

This will reduce primary inoculum for the next crop. Field bunds and irrigation channels should be kept clean to eliminate alternate hosts.

Excess application of nitrogenous fertilizer should be avoided.

Chemical methods :

Seed       treatment with carbendazim 2.0g/kg of seeds.

At booting and pre-flowering stages spray copper hydroxide 77 WP 800 gm or copper hydroxide 53.8% DF 600 ml  or thifluzamide 15% + difenoconazole 20% SC  100 ml per acre.

Source of information:

AICRIP rice, TNAU, Coimbatore, Rice diseases- online resource, IRRI, Phillippines.

Acknowledgements:

IRRI, Phillippines Success Stories Farmers Association Publications Disclaimer © TNAU 2008-2026 All Rights Reserved.
