Source: http://www.agritech.tnau.ac.in/crop_protection/rice_diseases/rice_12.html

TNAU Agritech Portal :: Crop Protection Success Stories Farmers Association Farmers' Innovation Publications Contact Agricultural crops :: Cereals :: Rice Rice Grassy stunt disease :

Rice grassy stunt virus Vector: Brown plant hopper Nilaparvata lugens Symptoms :

Diseased       hills are severely stunted with excessive tillering and a very upright       growth habit Diseased       hills has a grassy and rosette appearance Leaves short,       narrow and yellowish green with numerous small rusty spots or patches, which       form blotches Retention of       green coloration of the leaves after application of sufficient nitrogenous       fertilizers Infected       plants usually survive until maturity but produce no panicles. Symptom       develops 10-20 days after infection.

STUNTED TILLERS YELLOWISH GREEN LEAVES Identification of pathogen:

The virus       exists in the vector and in the rice crop. Brown plant hopper nymphs and       adults transmit it where rice is grown year round. RGSV is generally       endemic. The macropterous forms or the long winged adults of the insect       are important in spreading the disease than the short winged forms. They       feed on the diseased plant for at least 30 minutes to pick-up the virus.       Higher infection is attained after prolonged inoculation feeding periods       of up to 24 hours.

The       availability of the vector encourages the damage. Rice grassy stunt virus       (RGSV) is a member of the Tenuiviruses. It has fine filamentous particles,       which are 6-8 nm in diameter. It has a nodal contour length of 950-1,350       nm. The particles have one capsid protein and the genome is made up of four       single stranded RNA.

BROWN PLANT HOPPER Management:

Avoid close planting and provide 30 cm rogue spacing at every 2.5 to 3.0 m to reduce the pest incidence. .

Grow varieties       released by IRRI, which contain genes for BPH resistance, like IR26, IR64,       IR36, IR56 and IR72.

Plouging and       harrowing the field to destroy stubbles right after harvest in order to       eradicate other hosts Apply any one of the following to control vector  BPH Phosalone 35 EC 600 ml/acre Acephate 75 SP 250 ml/acre Chlorpyriphos 20 EC 500 ml/acre Source of information:

AICRIP rice, TNAU, Coimbatore, Rice diseases- online resource, IRRI, Phillippines.

Acknowledgements:

IRRI, Phillippines Success Stories Farmers Association Publications Disclaimer © TNAU 2008-2026 All Rights Reserved.

.
