Source: http://www.agritech.tnau.ac.in/expert_system/sugar/botany&climate.html

Expert System for Sugarcane
Expert System For Sugarcane
Home
|
About Us
|
Contact Us
Categories
Botany & Climate
Season & Varieties
Nursery Management
Cultivation Practices
Sustainable Sugarcane Initiative
Irrigation Management
Nutrient Management
Crop Protection
Farm Implements
Post Harvest Technology
Marketing
Institutions & Schemes
FAQ's
Related Links
Botany And Climate
About Sugarcane
Vernacular Names
Origin
Introduction
Botanical description
Climate
Vernacular Names
English:  Cultivated Sugarcane, Noble Cane, Noble Sugarcane, Sugar Cane.
Hindi: Ganna, Sakhara, Ukh.
Tamil:  karumbu
Malayalam:  Karimbu, Karimpu
Kannadam: kabbu
Top of page
Origin
Sugarcane  originated in New Guinea where it has been known since about 6000 BC.The  cultivated canes belong to two main groups: (a) thin, hardy north Indian types
S.barberi
and the Chinese
S.sinenses
and (b) thick, juicy  noble canes
S.officinarum
.  Highly prized cane is
S.officinarum
.  The origin of
S.officinarum
is the Indo-Myanmar China border with New Guinea as the main centre of  diversity. The
officinarums
are called the "noble canes' due to thick, juicy, low-fibred canes of high  sucrose content. The origin of
S.robustum
is New Guinea. The origin of
S.spontaneum
is subtropical India. The habitat of these two wild canes is swamps, river  banks, water courses etc. Tropical cane (Thick cane) might have originated in  New Guinea. From India it spreads probably to China, Arabia, Egypt and Sicily.
Top of page
Introduction
Sugarcane  and sugarbeet are the main sources of sugar in the world. Out of total sugar  produced in the world 60 per cent is obtained only from sugarcane. Asia is the  largest producer of sugar followed by Europe Most of the sugar in Asia comes  from sugarcane whereas in Europe from sugarbeet. Presently sugarcane is grown  in an area of 16 m. ha in over 79 countries. The global production of raw sugar  is 112 m.t. India stands first in area (3.93 m. ha) and production (167 m.t)  among the sugarcane growing countries of the world. Uttar Pradesh has the  largest area almost 50 per cent of the cane area in the country, followed by  Maharashtra, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Bihar, Haryana and  Punjab. These nine are most important sugarcane producing states. Sugarcane  production is also highest in U.P. followed by Maharashtra. Productivity wise,  Tamilnadu stands first with over 100 tonnes per hectare followed by Karnataka,  Maharashtra. Bihar has the lowest productivity amount the major sugarcane  growing states. The sugar industry is the second largest agro-based industry,  next only to textiles, in the country.
Top of page
Classification of Sugarcane
Family -  Gramineae
Class  - Monocotyledons
Order  - Glumaceae
Sub  family - Panicoidae
Tribe  - Andripogoneae
Sub-tribe  - Saccharininea
Top of page
Botanical Description
Sugarcane  is a tall perennial tropical grass, which tillers at the base to produce  unbranched stems from 2-8 m more tall, and to around 5cm in diameter; it could  be called as giant grass. It is cultivated for these thick stems or stalks or  canes, from which the sugar is extracted. The botany of cane consists of root,  leaves, stem and inflorescences.
Root
Stem
Leaf
Inflorescence
Root
The root system  is fibrous and in two types namely ‘sett roots’ and ‘shoot roots’.
When the  sugarcane sett is planted in the soil, the root primordial situated at the base  of every cane joint is activated and produces roots. These roots are ‘sett  roots’ and are mostly temporary.
Sett roots  can emerge within 24 hours of planting.
The shoot  roots arise from the root rings of the lower nodes of tillers. These roots are  thick, fleshy, white and less branched.
These are  permanent roots which are continually produced from tillers.
Shoot root  emerges from the base of the new shoot 5 -7 days after planting.
Top of page
Stem
Sugarcane is  propagated vegetatively from stem cuttings.
The stem of  sugarcane is roughly cylindrical and consists of nodes and internodes, the  former being the area around the bud from the leaf scar to the growth ring and  the later being the part between two nodes.
The node  consists of a lateral bud, root primordia and growth ring.
Bud situated  in the axil of the leaf on alternate sides of the stalk.
Root primordia  at lower side of the leaf scar arranged in rows.
Growth ring  present immediately above the each node, coated with waxy layer.
The top of  the stem is poor in sucrose and is of little value to the sugar factory.
Top of page
Leaf
The leaf  consists of two parts, the blade and the sheath, separated by a leaf joint.
The leaves  are attached alternately to the nodes.
The leaf  sheath is tubular in shape and is inserted at the node.
The leaf  blade is linear or lanceolate reaching one to one and midrib is prominent with  groove on upper surface.
The ligule  is a membranous ring found as an appendage of the sheath, separating the latter  from the blade, and bears long hairs.
The scarious  extension of the leaf sheath is know as auricles.
Top of page
Inflorescence
The inflorescence or  tassel of sugarcane, generally called as ‘Arrow’ is a loose terminal panicle.
25-50 cm long arrow  with silky appearance owing to rings of long hairs below each spikelet.
The arrangement of the  spikelet is racemose.
Each tassel consist of  several thousand tiny flowers, each capable of producing one seed. Sugarcane  usually flowers at the age of 10-12 months but some varieties do not flower at  all.
Top of page
Climate
Sugarcane is  a tropical plant. It grows more successfully in those regions where the climate  is more or less tropical but it can grow in sub tropics too as in north India. Sugarcane is grown in the world from altitude 35° N and 35°  S, from sea level to 1000m of altitude or little more.
Climatic  factor
Latitude  and altitude:
Sugarcane is grown in the world from altitude 36.7° N and 31.0° S, from sea  level to 1000m of altitude or little more.
Rainfall:
A total rainfall  between 1100 and 1500 mm is adequate provided the distribution is right,  abundant in the months of vegetative growth followed by a dry period for  ripening. It also grown in area where rainfall is low upto 500 mm. Above 1500  mm rainfall cause lodging of cane.
Temperature:
Growth is closely related to temperature. It  has a wide temperature range from over 38°c. Optimum temperature for cane  growth (germination) is 27° to 33°c (80 to 90°F). Temperature below 27°c  definitely injurious to the cane, reduce tillers and above 38°c adversely  affect the sprouting.
Ideal temperature:
Carbon assimilation-30°c
Sugar synthesis-30°c
Sugar transport- 30-35°c
Tillering-33.3-34.4°c
Root growth- 36°c
Shoot growth- 33°c
Relative humidity:
High humidity (80-85%)  favours rapid cane elongation during grand growth period. A moderate value of  45-65% coupled with limited water supply is favourable during the ripening  phase. Above 40% humidity coupled with warm weather favours vegetative growth  of cane.
Sunshine:
Sugarcane       is a sun loving plant.
Greater       incident radiation favours higher sugar yields.
About       7-9 hr of bright sunshine is highly useful for both active growth and       ripening.
Frost:
Sever       cold weather inhibits bud sprouting in ratoons and arrest cane growth.
At       temperature -1°c to 2°c the cane leaves and meristem tissues are       killed.
Wind:
High       velocity winds exceeding 60 km/hr are harmful to grown up canes leading to       lodging and
cane breakage.
Statistics
Area,Production and Productivity of sugarcane in World
State Wise Area,production and productivity of Sugarcane in India (2008-2009)
Sugarcane Statistics for Tamil Nadu,Kerela and Karnataka (1999-2009)
District wise Area,Production and Productivity of sugarcane
Area, Production and Productivity of Sugar cane (2007-08)
KERALA
Area, Production and Productivity of Sugar cane (2006-07)
KARNATAKA
Area, Production and Productivity of Sugar cane (2006-07)
Top of page
Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved