Source: http://agritech.tnau.ac.in/crop_protection/crop_prot_crop_insectpest _sugarcane_2.html

TNAU Agritech Portal :: Crop Protection Success Stories Farmers Association Farmers' Innovation Publications Contact Crop Protection :: Pest of Sugarcane Internode Borer:

Chilo sacchariphagus indicus Symptom :

Caterpillars attack sugarcane plants after 3 months of planting.

Internodes constricted and shortened, with a number of boreholes Boreholes are plugged with fresh excreta in the nodal region.

Frass materials are present on the affected portion.

Bore hole near internode Shortened internode Bore hole with excreta Frass on affected portion Identification of pest:

Egg:

Scale – like white eggs are laid      by female moths in batches of 9-11, near the midribs, on leaf sheaths or      on stem.

Larva:

White larva with four violet      longitudinal stripes and light brown head.

Pupa:

Pupation takes place in semi      – dried sheath. Pupal period 7-10 days.

Adult:

Straw coloured with a dark      spot on each of the fore wings.

Larva Pupa Adult Management :

Cultural method:

Use resistant varieties like      CO 975,COJ 46 and CO 7304.

Select pest free setts for      planting.

Physical method:

Collect and destroy the eggs      periodically.

Detrash the crop on 150th      and 210th day of planting. Detrashing dislodge the pupae that      remain in the leaf sheath.

Install pheromone traps @      10Nos. /ha for surveillance and monitoring, change the septa/lure once in      45 days.

Biological method:

Release egg parasitoid, Trichogramma chilonis at the rate      of  @ 2.5 cc / release / ha. Six      release at fortnightly intervals starting from 4th      month onwards.

Chemical method:

Avoid the use of excessive      nitrogenous fertilizers.

Content Validators:

Dr.V.Jayakumar, Senior Scientist (Plant Pathology), Sugarcane Breeding Institute, Coimbatore -641007.

Dr.T.Ramasubramanian, Senior Scientist (Entomology), Division of Crop Protection, Sugarcane Breeding Institute, Coimbatore -641007.

Dr.M.Ravi, Assistant Professor (Entomology), Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Sirugamani- 639115.

Source of Images:

http://www.nbair.res.in/insectpests/Chilo-sacchariphagus.php Success Stories Farmers Association Farmers' Innovation Publications © TNAU 2008 - 2024 All Rights Reserved.
