Source: http://agritech.tnau.ac.in/crop_protection/crop_prot_crop_insectpest _sugarcane_7.html

TNAU Agritech Portal :: Crop Protection Success Stories Farmers Association Farmers' Innovation Publications Contact Crop Protection :: Pest of Sugarcane White Grub:

Holotrichia consanguinea Symptom :

Yellowing and wilting of leaves.

Drying of entire crown.

Affected canes come off easily when pulled.

Cause extensive damage to roots and base of shoot.

Affected canes shows lodging in the field.

Damages can seen more in ratoon crop when compare to plant crop Yellowing of leaves Drying of entire crown Affected canes Infected root Identification of pest:

Egg:

A female lays on an average of 27 eggs in the soil, which are pear like and enclosed in earthen cells.

Grub:

Fleshy ‘C’ shaped, whitish yellow in colour found close to the base of the clump.

Pupa : Pupae are tan to brown, and occur deeper in the soil in earthen chambers.

Adult:

Adult beetles are a rusty-red colour just after emerging from the pupal stage, but turn nearly black.

Grub Adult Management :

Cultural method:

Provide adequate irrigation.

Deep ploughing immediately      after harvesting.

Avoid ratoon cropping Stagnating water for 24hrs in      the field then the grub will come out from the soil Physical method:

Collect and destroy the adult      beetles, harbouring in near by Neem, Ailanthus, and Acacia trees      immediately after the summer showers using using powerful petromax lights      as a mass campaign in areas near to forest and hilly regions.

Biological method:

Apply Beauveria brongniortii @ 2.5 kg/ha (1*109 cfu/g) entopathogenic fungal formulation along with FYM at the time of planting in endemic regions.

Content Validators:

Dr.V.Jayakumar, Senior Scientist (Plant Pathology), Sugarcane Breeding Institute, Coimbatore -641007.

Dr.T.Ramasubramanian, Senior Scientist (Entomology), Division of Crop Protection, Sugarcane Breeding Institute, Coimbatore -641007.

Dr.M.Ravi, Assistant Professor (Entomology), Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Sirugamani- 639115.

Success Stories Farmers Association Farmers' Innovation Publications © TNAU 2008 - 2024 All Rights Reserved.
