Source: http://agritech.tnau.ac.in/crop_protection/crop_prot_crop_insectpest _sugarcane_1.html

TNAU Agritech Portal :: Crop Protection Success Stories Farmers Association Farmers' Innovation Publications Contact Crop Protection :: Pest of Sugarcane Early shoot borer:

Chilo infuscatellus snellen Symptom :

Dead heart shows in 1-3 months old crop, which can be easily pulled out.

Caterpillar bores into the central shoot and feeds on the internal tissue cause Dead heart.

Rotten portion of the straw coloured shoot emits an offensive odour.

A number of bore holes at the base of the shoot just above the ground level.

Dead heart Bore holes Rotten portion Identification of pest:

Egg:

Flat – scale like eggs are laid in 3-5 rows on the      lower surface of leaves in masses of 4-100. The masses are slightly      overlapping like tiles.

Larva:

Larva is dirty white with five dark violet      longitudinal stripes and dark brown head.

Pupa:

Pupation takes within the tunnel. Caterpillar before      pupating makes a large exit hole in the stem and blocks the opening with      silken discs.

Adult:

Pale greyish brown moth with      black dots near the coastal      margin      of the forewings and with white hind wings.

Larva Pupa Adult Management :

ETL : 15% dead heart.

Cultural method:

Use resistant varieties like CO 312, CO 421, CO 661, CO 917 and CO 853 Early planting during December – January escapes the early shoot borer incidence.

Sugarcane intercropped with Daincha recorded the lowest early shoot borer incidence.

Trash mulching along the ridges to a thickness of 10-15 cm 3 days after planting.

Ensure adequate moisture to bring down the soil temperature and increase humidity (unfavourable condition for the multiplication of early shoot borer).

Partial earthing up on 45 days after planting reduces the incidence.

Physical method:

Remove       and destroy dead hearts.

Install       pheromone traps @ 10Nos. /ha for surveillance and monitoring, change the       septa/lure once in 30 days.

Biological method:

Apply       granulosis virus 1.5 x 13 5 IBS       / ha (750 diseased larvae / ha)along with teepol twice on 35 and 50 DAP.

Release       125 gravid females of Sturmiopsis       inferens a tachinid parasite per ac.

Chemical method:

Apply       any one of the following insecticides if the pest crosses ETL.

Carboryl       +Sevidol 4% G 12.5 kg, Carbofuron 3G 33       kg (Soil application). The granular application should be immediately       followed by irrigation.

Chlorpyriphos 1000 ml a sticker like Teepol       (250 ml / 500 l of water) can also be added to make the solution stick on       to the surface of the crop and it is preferable to use high volume       sprayer to be most effective.

Content Validators:

Dr.V.Jayakumar, Senior Scientist (Plant Pathology), Sugarcane Breeding Institute, Coimbatore -641007.

Dr.T.Ramasubramanian, Senior Scientist (Entomology), Division of Crop Protection, Sugarcane Breeding Institute, Coimbatore -641007.

Dr.M.Ravi, Assistant Professor (Entomology), Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Sirugamani- 639115.

Source of Images:

http://www.nbair.res.in/insectpests/Chilo-infuscatellus.php Success Stories Farmers Association Farmers' Innovation Publications © TNAU 2008-2024 All Rights Reserved.
