Source: http://agritech.tnau.ac.in/crop_protection/crop_prot_crop_insectpest _sugarcane_5.html

TNAU Agritech Portal :: Crop Protection Success Stories Farmers Association Farmers' Innovation Publications Contact Crop Protection :: Pest of Sugarcane Sugarcane Wooly Aphid:

Ceratovacuna lanigera Symptom :

Congregation of large number of white coloured nymphs and adults on the under surface of leaf.

Yellowing and drying of leaves from the tip along the margins.

Leaves become brittle and dries completely.

Heavy secretion of honey dew leads to development of sooty mold.

Deposition of wooly matter on ground / soil distinctly visible.

White mass on leaf Sooty mold Deposition of wooly matter on ground Infected field Identification of pest:

Nmphs are yellowish white in colour with less powdery substance. Two forms of adult viz ., apterate and alate. The Alate forms are predominantly white in colour.  Apterate often possesses crenulated margins of wax glands in rows. Such wax glands are absent in alate. Adult emerge after fourth moult and viviparous reproduction. Apterous (Wingless) female reproduce parthenogenetically. Each female produced about 15 – 35 young ones. Each female reproduces maximum of 217 nymphs with more number of females, which leads to fast multiplication. Nymph takes 6 to 22 days to complete four instars and become adult.

Nymph Adult Management :

Cultural method:

Paired row system of planting.

Avoid excessive use of      nitrogenous fertilizers.

Use of organic fertilizers.

Rapping of canes all along the      rows.

Infested tops should not be      transported.

Infested canes should not be      used as seed material for planting.

Biological method:

Encourage natural predators viz., Diapha aphidivora , Ishchiodon scutellaris , Episyrphus baleatus, Chrysopa sp., Schymnus sp., Cheilomenes sexmaculata, Coccinella septempunctata, Synnonycha grandis, Brumus sp.

and Dideopsis aegrota Pathogens like Cladosporium oxysporum, Metarhizium anisopliae, Verticillium lecanii and Beauveria bassiana Release Encarsia flavoscutellum Chemical method:

Dip the seed sets in Chlorpyripos 20 EC solution (2 ml / lit) before planting.

Apply phorate 10 G @ 5kg / ac or Spray with acephate75 SP 1g / lit Chlorpyriphos 20 EC 2 ml / lit Spray Malathion 50 EC 2 ml / lit Dimethoate 30 EC 1.7 ml / lit, Oxydemeton methyl 25 EC 1.3 ml / lit, or Dusting with Malathion 5% dust @ 10 kg / ac.

Content Validators:

Dr.V.Jayakumar, Senior Scientist (Plant Pathology), Sugarcane Breeding Institute, Coimbatore -641007.

Dr.T.Ramasubramanian, Senior Scientist (Entomology), Division of Crop Protection, Sugarcane Breeding Institute, Coimbatore -641007.

Dr.M.Ravi, Assistant Professor (Entomology), Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Sirugamani- 639115.

Success Stories Farmers Association Farmers' Innovation Publications © TNAU 2008 - 2024 All Rights Reserved.
