Source: http://agritech.tnau.ac.in/crop_protection/crop_prot_crop_insectpest _sugarcane_4.html

TNAU Agritech Portal :: Crop Protection Success Stories Farmers Association Farmers' Innovation Publications Contact Crop Protection :: Pest of Sugarcane Whiteflies:

Aleurolobus barodensis Symptom :

Yellowing of leaves and later it shows pale in colour Leaf turns pinkish or purple and later gradually dry.

Infested leaves look white and black dots.

In severe cases it look like fiery appearance It shows very slow in growth of plant Yellowing of leaves Pinkish or purple leaves White and black dots Identification of pest:

Egg:

Females lay eggs in a line      near the midrib or any where on the lower surface of the leaves. Eggs are      yellowish with a small curved stalk. Colour changes to black about two      hours after the eggs are laid.

Nymph & Pupa:

Neonate nymphs are pale yellow      in colour, flat and oval in shape, later turn shiny black. Its body is      surrounded by fringes of wax.The fourth instar being the pupal stage, is      flat, oval, greyish in colour and slightly bigger than the nymph. There is      a ‘T’ shaped white marking on the thorax, which splits at the time of      adult emergence.

Adult:

Pale yellow body with hyaline      wings dusted with waxy bloom, exhibit brisk fluttering movements.

Young and adult whitefly Whitefly Management :

Cultural method:

Avoid water stagnation and provide proper drainage facilities Detrashing of cane at the 5th and 7 th month Avoid the excess application of fertilizers Physical method:

Detrashing the puparia bearing leaves and immediately disposing by burning or burying to prevent emergence of adult white flies.

Ensure adequate irrigation which facilitates the soil moisture and reduces the multiplication.

Chemical method:

Spray fenitrothion 50 EC @ 2 lit / ha (1000 lit spray fluid)

Spray thiamethoxan 25 WG @ 125g/ha, 750 litres of spray fluid.

Spraying acephate 2g per lit of water.the spray has to be repeated after a month to kill the nymphs emerging from eggs Application of chlorpyriphos @ 1250 lit spray fluid by using hand sprayer Content Validators:

Dr.V.Jayakumar, Senior Scientist (Plant Pathology), Sugarcane Breeding Institute, Coimbatore -641007.

Dr.T.Ramasubramanian, Senior Scientist (Entomology), Division of Crop Protection, Sugarcane Breeding Institute, Coimbatore -641007.

Dr.M.Ravi, Assistant Professor (Entomology), Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Sirugamani- 639115.

Success Stories Farmers Association Farmers' Innovation Publications © TNAU 2008 - 2024 All Rights Reserved.
