Source: http://agritech.tnau.ac.in/crop_protection/crop_prot_crop_insectpest _sugarcane_6.html

TNAU Agritech Portal :: Crop Protection Success Stories Farmers Association Farmers' Innovation Publications Contact Crop Protection :: Pest of Sugarcane Mealybug:

Saccharicoccus sacchari Symptom :

Pinkish oval insects beneath leaf sheath on the nodes, with whitish mealy coating.

Main cane stunned also attack roots.

Sooty mould develops on the honey dew giving blackish appearance on canes which attack the black ants Yellowing of leaves Insects beneath leaf sheath Sooty mould Adult Identification of pest:

Eggs:

Eggs are retained in the female reproductive organs until they fully mature.  Incubation period is short. The females may bring forth hundreds of young ones parthenogenetically. Egg is yellowish, smooth, cylindrical and rounded at both ends.

Nymph:

Newly emerged nymphs are quite active with a pinkish transparent body.

Adult:

Pinkish with mealy coating.

Management :

Cultural method:

Use resistant varieties like      CO 439, CO 443, CO 720, CO 730 and CO 7704 Drain excess water from the      field.

Physical method:

Detrash the crop on 150 and      210 DAP Avoid excess usage of Nitrogen      fertilizers Chemical method:

Apply any one of the following      insecticides per ha and when the incidence is noticed spray on the stem      only, methyl parathion 50 EC 1000 ml, malathion 50 EC 1000 ml.

If severe infestation is      noticed detrash and spray with dimethoate 30 EC @ 1 ml/ lit mixed with      fish oil resin resin soap @ 2.5 ml/lit. Direct the spray on growing point      and clump region and in the soil below the clump.

Content Validators:

Dr.V.Jayakumar, Senior Scientist (Plant Pathology), Sugarcane Breeding Institute, Coimbatore -641007.

Dr.T.Ramasubramanian, Senior Scientist (Entomology), Division of Crop Protection, Sugarcane Breeding Institute, Coimbatore -641007.

Dr.M.Ravi, Assistant Professor (Entomology), Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Sirugamani- 639115.

Success Stories Farmers Association Farmers' Innovation Publications © TNAU 2008 - 2024 All Rights Reserved.
