Source: http://agritech.tnau.ac.in/crop_protection/crop_prot_crop_insectpest _sugarcane_8.html

TNAU Agritech Portal :: Crop Protection Success Stories Farmers Association Farmers' Innovation Publications Contact Crop Protection :: Pest of Sugarcane Scale Insects:

Melanaspis glomerata Symptom :

The leaves of infested canes show signs of tip drying and unhealthy pale green colour and severe infestation causes yellowing.

Severe desapping leads to non-opening of leaves, which also turn yellow and finally dry up.

Infested crop losses its vigour, canes shrivel, growth is stunted and the internodal length is reduced drastically.

Ultimately cane dries up. Such canes when slit open appear brownish red.

Thick brown encrustations are seen on the nodal and intermodal regions in severely affected canes.

Irregular yellowing of leaves Dark encrustration Poor germination Shrivelling of can Drying of can Scale insect Identification of pest:

Nymph:

Females multiply ovo-viviparously. The nymphs that hatch out from the eggs within the female’s body come out through the genital aperture. They are called ‘crawlers’. They settle after selecting suitable site for feeding.

Adult:

Greyish black or brown circular scales, they cover the nodal region forming a thick encrustation.

Management :

Cultural method:

Use resistant varieties like      CO 439, CO 443, CO 453, CO 671, CO 691 and CO 692 Select and plant the scale      insect free setts.

Keep the fields and bunds free      from weeds.

Avoid water stagnation in the      field for a longer period.

Avoid repeated ratoons.

Physical method:

Detrash the crop at 150th      and 210th day of plnting.

Setts should be dipped in      dichlorvos at 1ml per lit of water and placed in cement bags with the      mouth tied and transported to planting area Biological method:

Release Chilocorus nigritus (or)

Pharascymnus      horni egg card @ 5cc/ac Also release hymenopteran      parasitoides like anabrotepis mayurai, cheiloneurus sp and predatory mites      like saniosulus nudus and tyrophagus puttseartiae which feed on scale      insect.

Chemical method:

Pre-soak the setts in 0.1%      solution malathion.

Spray dimethoate @ 2ml/ lit      along with sticker after detrashing.

Apply contact insecticides      like dichlorvos or any @ 2ml/lit of water by using hand sprayer.

Content Validators:

Dr.V.Jayakumar, Senior Scientist (Plant Pathology), Sugarcane Breeding Institute, Coimbatore -641007.

Dr.T.Ramasubramanian, Senior Scientist (Entomology), Division of Crop Protection, Sugarcane Breeding Institute, Coimbatore -641007.

Dr.M.Ravi, Assistant Professor (Entomology), Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Sirugamani- 639115.

Success Stories Farmers Association Farmers' Innovation Publications © TNAU 2008 - 2024 All Rights Reserved.
