Source: http://agritech.tnau.ac.in/crop_protection/crop_prot_crop_insectpest _sugarcane_3.html

TNAU Agritech Portal :: Crop Protection Success Stories Farmers Association Farmers' Innovation Publications Contact Crop Protection :: Pest of Sugarcane Top Shoot Borer:

Scirpophaga excerptalis Symptom :

Caterpillars are mainly found in the apical portion of      canes, boring through the growing point and down the upper joints until it      reaches the sappy portion of the stem.

Dead heart in grown up canes, which cannot be      easily pulled.

Larva bore into unfolded leaves and shows parallel row of shot holes      in the emerging leaves.

Bore holes at the top of the shoot and shows bunchy top appearance.

Dead heart Parllel shot holes Bore hole Bunchy top appearence Identification of pest:

Egg:

Eggs are laid on the lower      surface of top leaves in clusters particularly near midribs. The clusters      are covered with buff coloured hairs.

Larva:

Smooth, white or cream coloured      with a red coloured mid – dorsal line and yellow head.

Pupa:

Pupation takes place within the      larval tunnel in a chamber with an exit hole constructed by the      caterpillar.

Adult:

White Coloured moth (with a buff orange coloured anal tuft of hairs in female)

Egg Larva Pupa Adult Management :

Cultural method:

Use resistant variety CO 419, CO      745 and CO 6516 and tolerant varieties Co 859, Co 1158 and Co 7224.

Small earthing up followed by      trash mulching Do not undertake maize, sorghum as      intercrops Prefer paired row system for      planting Remove the dead heart plants and      destroy them Physical method:

Collect and destroy the egg      masses.

Collection of egg masses on      campaign basis once in 4 days initiating the collection from the day of      moth emergence Biological method:

Release Ichneumonid parasitized      Gambroides (Isotima) javensis @ 100 pairs / ha as prepupal parasitoid.

Selective destruction of      unparasitized eggs by placing the egg masses in 30 mesh nylon bags that      permit escape of adult parasitoids while containg the neonate larvae      hatching from unparasitized eggs.

Chemical method:

Application of Carbofuran      3G 1 kg a.i/ha or Thimet 10G      3 kg a.i/ha ten days before the      commencement of 3rd brood in sub tropical india.

Application is done by opening a small furrow      near the root zone, placing the granule followed by a light irrigation Content Validators:

Dr.V.Jayakumar, Senior Scientist (Plant Pathology), Sugarcane Breeding Institute, Coimbatore -641007.

Dr.T.Ramasubramanian, Senior Scientist (Entomology), Division of Crop Protection, Sugarcane Breeding Institute, Coimbatore -641007.

Dr.M.Ravi, Assistant Professor (Entomology), Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Sirugamani- 639115.

Source of Images:

http://agropedia.iitk.ac.in/sites/default/files/8%20pupae.jpg Success Stories Farmers Association Farmers' Innovation Publications © TNAU 2008 - 2024 All Rights Reserved.
