Source: http://www.agritech.tnau.ac.in/expert_system/sugar/ratoon.html

Expert System for Sugarcane
Expert System For Sugarcane
Home
|
About Us
|
Contact Us
Catagories
Botany & Climate
Season & Varieties
Nursery Management
Cultivation Practices
Sustainable Sugarcane Initiative
Irrigation Management
Nutrient Management
Crop Protection
Farm Implements
Post Harvest Technology
Marketing
Institutions & Schemes
FAQ's
Related Links
Ratoon Cane Management
Sugarcane  productivity has shown the increasing trend, a wide gap exists between  potential (competition crops) and existing (commercial plots) productivity  levels. Ratooning constitutes around 50% of the total area under cane and ratoon  productivity and early maturity that the plant crop. Ratoon productivity has  been proved to increase with proper
management involving timely agricultural  operations, proper nutrition management, and integrated pest management and  maintenance of adequate plant population.
Management Practices for better  ratoon crop
:
1.Selection of suitable  varieties:
Selection  of suitable sugarcane varieties with good ratoonability.
It  is observed that certain sugarcane varieties perform better in ratoon crop or  at least on par with plant crop. Varieties like Co 8013, Co 6907, Co 8014,  85A261, 87A298, 90A272, 92A123, 81V48, 91V83, 93V297, 97V60 and 83R23 in early  category and 83V18, 89V74, 93A145, 94A109, Co 7219, Co 7805, Co 7706 and Co  86032 in mid –late category are to be selected for cultivation.
2.Cultivation  practices:
At the time of harvest of plant crop sharp  knives for cutting the clump to the ground level need to be used.
Cleaning of field and removal of dead canes,  trash etc., where ever they are in the field.
Breaking the clods by intercultivation between  the furrows with the plough.
Stubble shaving has to be done with sharp knives  to the ground level. The advantage of stubble shaving includes the removal of  generated old buds and rejuvenation of new buds. Care should be taken not to  disturb the clump while stubble shaving.
Top of page
3.Gap filling:
Normally while harvesting the plant crop  due to the movement of labor, more gaps are found in the ratoon crop. Therefore,  it is very essential to fill the gaps so as to have more number of millable  canes in ratoon crop also. This can be done in the following ways:
With setts: Placement of either single/two/three  budded setts in the gaps.
Pre-germinated settlings raised through “Polybag  system”
Taking the clumps from thickly populated area  and filling the gaps.
4.Poly bag seed nursery:
Single budded setts are to be cut carefully.
While planting in the bag proper care should be  taken to keep the bud in upward direction.
A thin layer of soil medium should be on the bud  of the sett.
Poly bags should be kept in rows.
For every six rows path should be left for easy  sprinkling of water with rose cans.
Number of sprinklings depends on prevailing  environmental conditions.
Poly bags should be kept under shade preferably.
The buds start sprouting from 10th to  12th day onwards.
Normally the settlings aged between 35-40 days  are to be used for planting.
While  planting, care is to be taken not to disturb the soil of the poly bag.
With a blade  give a gentle cut on one side of the bag along the length, remove bag carefully  and put the setting in the furrows of the main field and press gently.
5
.
Trash mulching:
This should be done by  applying 3 tonnes of trash per hectare and need to be spread on the field  inbetween the furrows. The advantages include the following:
Forms  as a cover to the soil.
Prevents  evaporation of soil moisture.
Conserves  the soil moisture.
Keep  the root zone moist.
Helps  in the production of more tillers.
Early  Shoot Borer (ESB).
Keeps  the standing crop in lush green color.
Aids  the plant in absorbing more nutrients.
Top of page
6. Integrated Nutrient Management:
a
). Inorganic Fertilizers:
For ratoon crop, 3 bags of urea, 5  bags of super phosphate and 1.50 bag of muriate of potash are to be applied at  the time of rationing. The second dose of 3 bags of urea should be given at 45th  day after rationing.
b
). Organic fertilizers:
Application of 2 bags of bio-compost,  4 kgs of Azospirillum and 4 kgs of phosphobactor per acre is recommended for  getting higher yields and better sugar recovery.
7.
Weed management:
In ratoon crops we should not apply  any pre-emergence weedicide (Atrozin). The post emergence weedicides Gramoxone  (4.50 liters) and Femoxone(2.50 Kg) per hectare are to be used for the control  of weeds. If necessary one manual weedling may be done.
8
.
Water management:
Ratoon crops normally require 18-20  irrigations in their life span. Drip irrigation is also recommended in the  places of water scarcity. In certain cases, alternate furrow method is  recommended. However, wherever there is plenty of water, normal irrigations at  regular intervals arerecommended to get higher yields.
9
.
Harvesting  of ratoon crop:
It is an established fact that  ratoons mature early (at least by one month) when compared to plant crop.  Hence, all the care should be taken to get the cutting orders by respective  sugar factories well in advance so that the cane may be used as an open mill  cane at the time of starting of the crushing season.
Top of page
10. Advantages and Disadvantages:
Advantages
No preparatory cultivation is required.
Saving in the cost of seed material.
Saving of labor since many operations such as  collection of seed cane, cutting of the setts and planting are not undertaken  in rations.
The leftover in the field especially in the form  of fallen leaves, trash, etc., in due course of time gets converted in to  organic matter.
Ratoon crops generally come to maturity at least  one month early.
The expenditure involved in growing ratoon crops  is less as compared to plant crop.
Disadvantages:
Cane  yields are generally lower than plant crop yields.
Nitrogenous  fertilizer requirement is more.
In  almost all the places, the ratoon crops receive neglected attention. Neglected  cultivation makes the ratoon crops more prone to pests and diseases.
Under  some situations in certain varieties, flowering takes place and unusual delay  in the harvest and particular conditions might result in the increase of fiber  content that might ultimately affect the sugar recovery.
Top of page
Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved