Source: https://agritech.tnau.ac.in/crop_protection/sugarcane_diseases/sugarcane_d7.html

TNAU Agritech Portal :: Crop Protection Success Stories Farmers Association Farmers' Innovation Publications Contact Agricultural crops :: Cash crops :: Sugarcane Sett rot:

Ceratocytis paradoxa Symptoms:

When      diseased setts are planted they may rot before germination, or the shoots      may die after reaching a height of about 6-12 inches.

As the      setts get dried up, the reddish colour becomes black with lots of black      coloured fungal spores adhering to it.

If infected shoots survive, they are very much      stunted and chlorotic.

Eventually the leaves may wither and the shoots      wilt.

If the affected shoots and setts are examined the      central portion of the shoots will be seen discoloured red and the      contents of the sett rotting.

When split opened, the affected setts exhibit pineapple      odour.

Reddish discolouration in cane Stunted growth Yellowing and sunted growth Black fungal spores Pathogen:

Ceratocytis paradoxa is initially whitish, measuring about 5 mm in diameter and  colonies turn black due to the production of chlamydospores, which are heavily pigmented, when mature.

Management strategies :

Cultural method:

Healthy      setts should be obtained from disease free fields Proper      drainage and planting of setts in 1-2 cm depth.

Field      sanitation practices combined with chemical pre treatment of the setts are      quite effective in controlling the disease Avoid      deep planting during monsoon season Chemical Method:

Ceratocytis paradoxa Dipping      the setts in 40 ppm of boron or manganese, or spraying the plants with      either of these minor elements reduces the disease intensity.

sett      treatment with fungicide like Bavistin, 0.1 per cent before planting Apply      carbendazim @ 2gm/lit of water at the root zone area and same as follow at      15 days interval Success Stories Farmers Association Farmers' Innovation Publications © TNAU 2008-2024 All Rights Reserved.
