Source: https://agritech.tnau.ac.in/crop_protection/sugarcane_diseases/sugarcane_d2.html

TNAU Agritech Portal :: Crop Protection Success Stories Farmers Association Farmers' Innovation Publications Contact Agricultural crops :: Cash crops :: Sugarcane Smut:

Ustilago scitaminea Symptoms:

Production of whip like structure ( 25 – 150 cm) from the growing point of the canes.

Whip covered by translucent silvery membrane enclosing mass of black powdery spores.

Initial thin canes with elongated internodes later become reduced in length.

Profuse sprouting of lateral buds with narrow, erect leaves especially in ratoon crop.

Whip like structure Small and narrow leaves Black powdery spores Identification of Pathogen:

The fungal mycelium spores are echinulate, light brown and spherical, measuring 6.5 – 8.5 µ in diameter.

They germinate readily in water, producing 2-3 celled promycelia.

Sporidia arise terminally or laterally and are hyaline, thin walled, single celled and elliptical to linear.

Management strategies :

Cultural method:

Growing      of resistant and moderately resistant varieties viz ., Co 86249, CoG 93076, CoC 22, CoSi 6 and CoG 5 Discourage ratooning of the diseased crops having      more than 10 per cent infection Cajanus cajan can be grown as a companion crop between rows of      sugarcane, and the secondary spread of the disease is substantially      reduced.

Ustilago scitaminea Physical method:

Treating      the seed setts with Areated Steam Therapy (AST) at 50 ºC for 1 hour or in      hot water at 50 ºC for 30 minutes or at 52 ºC for 18 minutes Roguing      of smut whips with gunny bags/polythene bag and dipped in boiling water      for 1 hour, and diseased clums must be uprooted and burnt Chemical method:

Sett      treatment with fungicides viz ., Triadimefon @ 1gm in 1 litre of      water or Carbendazim @ 1gm in 1 litre of water for 10 minutes.

Spray      on infected stools with a small amount of a 10% solution of roundup, using      a small hand held sprayer.

In      severe cases spray the entire block with glyphosate (360 G/L) at 5-7      lit/ha Success Stories Farmers Association Farmers' Innovation Publications © TNAU 2008-2024 All Rights Reserved.
