Source: http://www.agritech.tnau.ac.in/crop_protection/sugarcane_diseases/sugarcane_pokkah_boe.html

TNAU Agritech Portal :: Crop Protection Success Stories Farmers Association Farmers' Innovation Publications Contact Agricultural crops :: Cash crops :: Sugarcane Pokkah boeng - disease of Sugarcane Pokkah boeng Pokkah boeng is a re- emerging disease in sugarcane.

It is a Javanese term denoting a malformation or distorted top.

It is caused by the Fusarium species complex.

Severity of Pokkah boeng disease incidence increases with the occurrence of the crown mealybug Phenacoccus saccharifolii coincides with summer months of April-July.

The mealybug P. saccharifolii colonizes the crown region of the crop and associated with black ant Camponotus compressus .

Profuse honey dew secretion by the crown mealybugs leads to extensive sooty mould ( Capnodium sp.) growth on the leaves.

Three to seven months old plant crops are most susceptible to the disease, whereas in ratoon one month old crops itself got affected by the Pokkah boeng disease.

Symptoms:

Chlorotic phase (chlorotic, rough, wrinkling, twisting and shortening of the leaves).

Top rot phase (growing point is killed and the entire top of the plant dies).

Knife cut phase (Its look like the tissues of the stem are removed with a sharp knife).

Shortening of internodes.

Bud sprouting (it occurs during before maturation of crop).

Chlorotic phase Wrinkling, twisting and shortening of leaves Ratoon  - Twisting of leaves Top rot phase Knife cut phase Shortening of internodes and buds sprouting Crown mealybug associated with black ant Sooty mould Pathogen:

Pokkah boeng is caused by the Fusarium species complex ( Fusarium sacchari, Fusarium proliferatum, Fusarium verticillioides etc.,).

Favourable conditions:

Pokkah boeng was favoured by warm, moist condition and additionally, summer showers with cloudy weather also favour disease development Mode of spread :

Pokkah boeng is an air-borne disease Primary spread	:	Air-current Secondary spread	:	Infected setts, irrigation water, splashed rains and soil Mode of survival  :

The pathogen ( Fusarium ) can survive for 12 months in the plant debris under natural conditions.

Management  :

The following Integrated pest and disease Management practices is recommended to manage the Pokkah boeng disease in sugarcane.

Cultural methods  :

Use moderately tolerant variety :

Co 86032 Highly susceptible varieties may be avoided :

CoV 09356, CoV 94101, Co 11015, Co 06022 and 87 A 298 Physical methods :

Before spraying ensure detrashing.

Monitor the movement of ants regularly.

Removal of infected plant parts showing top rot and knife cut symptoms .

Chemical method Sett treatment with Propiconazole 25% EC (1ml/lit.) + Imidacloprid 70 WS (1ml/lit.) for 20 minutes as prophylactic measures (Plant crop).

Application of recommended dose of fertilizers and micro nutrients after every ratoon and at the time of earthing up.

Spraying of TNAU Sugarcane Booster @ 1kg, 1.5kg and 2kg at 45, 60, 75 days  respectively after planting / ratooning.

Spraying with Propiconazole 25% EC 1ml + Imidacloprid 17.8% SL 0.4 ml + sticking agent 1ml + water 1lit. soon after the appearance of symptom. If incidence noticed again, spraying with Propiconazole 25% EC (1ml/l) + Flonicamid 50 WG (0.3g/l) or Clothianidine 50 WDG (0.5g/l) @ 20 days interval.

Content Validators:

Dr. S. Thangeswari, Asst.Prof. (Plant Pathology), Department of Plant Pathology, TNAU, Coimbatore.

Success Stories Farmers Association Farmers' Innovation Publications © TNAU 2008-2024 All Rights Reserved.
